you're in a submarine that's about to
dive to almost a thousand meters to film
Humboldt squid for blue planet - we'll
be staying in this bubble for eight
hours and at depth will be under a
hundred times the pressure that's at the
surface on this voyage into the unknown
just off the coast of Chile you're
joining me my name is Ola I'm a producer
- right is cameraman Hugh Miller and
just behind us our pilot leaf right here
looks like he's underwater Am I
going beneath the waves is unbelievably
exciting
every time I dive in a sub I feel like
an astronaut going on an interstellar
mission look up and experience the first
point of emotion at this point we know
we won't see the sky again for another
eight hours as we descend it gets darker
and darker the deeper we go the greater
the pressure on the outside of the Sun
but we don't feel that inside just very
occasionally we'll hear the acrylic
sphere creaking under the strain
we believe the squid we seek live
anywhere in the twilight zone that
starts around 200 meters deep and
stretches all the way down 2,000 meters
the subs lights can only reach so far in
the darkness so we also use solar to try
and find the radio noises you can hear
are our comms with the ship on the
surface at regular intervals we
communicate with the team on board to
convey our depth whether we're going up
or down or staying level and the status
of our life-support systems
fast forward an hour and we're as deep
as we can go it's now pitch black being
in this mysterious realm is amazing we
know that nobody has ever been here
before and chances are nobody will ever
be here again if you look out the front
of the sub you'll see some of the
extraordinary animals we've managed to
film on this voyage Humboldt squid the
reason we're here this huge predatory
squared can be up to two metres long and
weigh up to 50 kilos sea cucumbers these
pelagic forms of the sea cucumber are
very different to their bottom-dwelling
relatives notice how they flex their
frills to move through the water cat
shark over a hundred species of cat
shark live throughout our blue planet
getting their name from their elongated
cat-like eyes and deep-sea shrimps these
crustaceans patrol the ocean floor
scooping up any marine snow after eight
hours it's time to return to the
familiar and we start our ascent every
single time we dive in these subs it
feels like we've been to another planet
new technology subs cameras and lighting
are giving us an entirely new
understanding
but how these amazing features survive
in some of the most hostile attacks on
what fascinates you about the deep-sea
tell us in the comments all join the
conversation using the hashtag of new
planet